---
layout: about
title: About
permalink: /
subtitle: <a href='https://collaborator.omdena.com/collaborator-profile/54332'> Data Science Collaborator @ Omdena</a>. Durgapur, West Bengal, India.

profile:
  align: right
  image: SoumyaRDas_Profile_Photo.jpg
  image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
  more_info: >
    <p>At Symposium of Advanced Simulation Methods,</p>
    <p>IIT Delhi.</p>
    <p>March 2019</p>

selected_papers: false # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
social: true # includes social icons at the bottom of the page

announcements:
  enabled: false # includes a list of news items
  scrollable: true # adds a vertical scroll bar if there are more than 3 news items
  limit: 5 # leave blank to include all the news in the `_news` folder

latest_posts:
  enabled: true
  scrollable: true # adds a vertical scroll bar if there are more than 3 new posts items
  limit: 3 # leave blank to include all the blog posts
---

I am a data scientist with over a year of experience in machine learning (ML),
data analysis, and artificial intelligence (AI). I have collaborated with
[Omdena](https://www.omdena.com/) on developing data-driven solutions that
create a positive social impact. My work has spanned various domains, including
healthcare, precision agriculture, climate science, and credit risk modeling. My
projects have included designing climate risk models for East African Small and
Medium Enterprises (SMEs), applying AI to optimize millet crop selection, and
contributing to healthcare advancements through data-driven approaches.

Before transitioning into data science, I earned a Masterâ€™s degree in Physics
from [IIT Delhi](https://physics.iitd.ac.in/) and spent eight years conducting
computational physics research. My academic journey included studying neutrino
simulations for the [Deep Underground Neutrino Experiment
(DUNE)](https://www.dunescience.org/) at [Fermilab](https://www.fnal.gov/), USA,
and exploring carbon-based materials like graphene at [IISER
Tirupati](https://www.iisertirupati.ac.in/). I have published [seven research
papers](https://scholar.google.com/citations?hl=en&user=rWal8HcAAAAJ&view_op=list_works&sortby=pubdate)
and presented at international conferences. This research foundation shaped my
analytical rigor and commitment to continuous learning, skills I now apply to
solving complex data challenges. Beyond my technical expertise, I am passionate
about teaching and mentoring, having supported high school and college students
in physics, mathematics, and coding. Today, I enjoy collaborating on innovative
projects that harness data to drive positive change.
